hi my name is John Conway and I'm the
chef at the OA baroque in Great Falls of
Northern Virginia we're here today to
prepare traditional Irish beef stew our
main ingredients will be beef tenderloin
tips I'm raw vegetables which will be
onions carrots leeks celery potatoes we
have flour salt fresh black pepper and
roasted garlic a bouquet garni which
consists of bay leaf parsley and fresh
thyme started now and we're going to
start preparing the beef tenderloin tips
so I have here some beef tenderloin tips
and we're just gonna dice them up into
nice bite sizes because we're gonna be
braising them so I'm just gonna take a
leak and we want to take off some of the
green and we want to cut us right down
the center and then we want to cut it
again in force and I'm just gonna wash
it in the sink
I'm just gonna dice too much okay so I
have a large onion here take a few
sticks oh sorry I washed the potatoes
and I'm just splitting them in half and
then I'm gonna do it in quarters okay so
I have a hot skillet pan here we're just
gonna use a touch of olive oil and then
we're gonna start raising these
basically what we're doing here is we're
receiving in all all the juices all the
flavors you want to sear it on both
sides and I find that you can use as
much salt on beef because it tenderizes
us and it gives it a lot more flavor
some black pepper
some roasted garlic the reason why I use
beef tenderloin tips it's a better cut
of meat it has more flavor I'm going to
start transferring it to our pot here so
we have our meat in here now what we're
gonna do is we're gonna add the flour
and as I said before you really want to
cook at the flour if you do not cook at
the flour it's gonna be flowery so now
we're gonna add some of our beef stock
first mix this up we're gonna add our
vegetables again we have 1 onion diced 3
carrots diced 3 sticks of sorry and
we're gonna add our leeks so now I'm
just gonna add some stock perfect now
we're gonna add our bouquet garni fresh
thyme so we're gonna let this cook for
maybe 40 minutes and before we add the
potatoes because we don't have the
potatoes right now because join the
cooking process the potatoes will
overcook them they're going to mush and
you don't want that the meat is just
beginning to become tender so we're
gonna add the potatoes so it's been
approximately 30 minutes so now we're
gonna leave that for maybe another 10-15
minutes so the potatoes are done and
then I'm going to show you how we serve
on traditional hours - you're certainly
missed you you want to make sure you got
a good mix of your vegetables meat and
potatoes here we have our traditional
Irish - this is the way we service and I
hope you want to join for how-to videos
on any topic visit monkey-see calm